DOCS-997-add-calico-labels (#1034)
tigera/docs: calico-enterprise_versioned_docs/version-3.18/reference/resources/calico-labels.mdx

---
description: Calico Enterprise automatic labels for use with resources.
---

# Calico Enterprise automatic labels

As a convenience, {{prodname}} provides immutable labels that are used for specific resources when evaluating selectors in policies. The labels make it easier to match resources in common ways (such as matching a namespace by name).

## Namespaces

The label `projectcalico.org/name` is set to the name of the namespace. This allows for matching namespaces by name when using a `namespaceSelector` field.

For example, the following GlobalNetworkPolicy applies to workloads with label, `color: red` in namespaces named, `"foo"` and `"bar"`. The policy allows ingress traffic to port 8080 from all workloads in a third namespace named, `"baz"`:

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: GlobalNetworkPolicy
metadata:

> name: foo-and-bar
> spec:
> namespaceSelector: projectcalico.org/name in {"foo", "bar"}
> selector: color == "red"
> types:
>   - Ingress
> ingress:
>   - action: Allow
> source:
> namespaceSelector: projectcalico.org/name == "baz"
> destination:
> ports:
>   - 8080

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: foo-and-bar
spec:
  namespaceSelector: projectcalico.org/name in {"foo", "bar"}
  selector: color == "red"
  types:
  - Ingress
  ingress:
  - action: Allow
    source:
      namespaceSelector: projectcalico.org/name == "baz"
    destination:
      ports:
      - 8080
```

:::

## Workload endpoints

WorkloadEndpoints (which represent Pods in Kubernetes, or VM instances in OpenStack), receive several automatic labels:

* `projectcalico.org/orchestrator` is applied to all WorkloadEndpoints and allows Kubernetes Pods to be distinguished from OpenStack VM instances, and from HostEndpoints (which do not have the label):

* `has(projectcalico.org/orchestrator)` matches only WorkloadEndpoints
* `projectcalico.org/orchestrator == "k8s"` matches only Kubernetes Pods

* For WorkloadEndpoints that represent Kubernetes Pods, `projectcalico.org/namespace` contains the name of the pod's namespace. `projectcalico.org/namespace` predates the addition of `namespaceSelector` fields to GlobalNetworkPolicies; it serves the same purpose as the `projectcalico.org/name` label in a `namespaceSelector` field.  The following GlobalNetworkPolicy is exactly equivalent to the example shown in the Namespaces section:

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: GlobalNetworkPolicy
metadata:

> name: foo-and-bar
> spec:
> selector: projectcalico.org/namespace in {"foo", "bar"} && color == "red"
> types:
>   - Ingress
> ingress:
>   - action: Allow
> source:
> selector: projectcalico.org/namespace == "baz"
> destination:
> ports:
>   - 8080

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: foo-and-bar
spec:
  selector: projectcalico.org/namespace in {"foo", "bar"} && color == "red"
  types:
  - Ingress
  ingress:
  - action: Allow
    source:
      selector: projectcalico.org/namespace == "baz"
    destination:
      ports:
      - 8080
```

---

> description: Calico automatic labels used in resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Calico automatic labels provided for resources.
```
"provided for" feels a bit more correct to me; we make these available for the convenience of the user

Author: Fixed.

---

# Calico automatic labels

> Calico sets immutable labels that are used for specific resources when evaluating selectors. These labels make it easier to match resources in common ways (such as matching a namespace by name). The labels applied to each resource type are as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calico provides immutable labels on specific resource types when evaluating selectors. These labels make it easier to match resources in common ways (such as matching a namespace by name). The labels applied to each resource type are as follows.
```
"sets" gives the wrong impression: I don't think you'll see most of these if you list the datamodel, they're generated as the resources are processed internally.

Author: Good point. Fixed.

## Namespaces

> `projectcalico.org/name` is set to the name of the namespace. This allows for matching namespaces by name when using a `namespaceSelector` field. For example, the following GlobalNetworkPolicy applies to workloads with label `color: red` in a namesapces named `"foo"` and `"bar"`; it allows ingress traffic to port 8080 from all workloads in a third namespace named `"baz"`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`projectcalico.org/name` is set to the name of the namespace. This allows for matching namespaces by name when using a `namespaceSelector` field. For example, the following GlobalNetworkPolicy applies to workloads with label `color: red` in a namespaces named `"foo"` and `"bar"`; it allows ingress traffic to port 8080 from all workloads in a third namespace named `"baz"`:
```

Author: Fixed.

```
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: GlobalNetworkPolicy
metadata:
name: foo-and-bar
spec:
namespaceSelector: projectcalico.org/name in {"foo", "bar"}
selector: color == "red"
types:
  - Ingress
ingress:
  - action: Allow
source:
namespaceSelector: projectcalico.org/name == "baz"
destination:
ports:
  - 8080
```

:::note

> Kubernetes also has [automatic labeling](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/#automatic-labelling), for example: `kubernetes.io/metadata.name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes also has [automatic labeling](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/#automatic-labelling), for example: `kubernetes.io/metadata.name`.  The Kubernetes label serves the same purpose and it can be used in the same way.  The `projectcalico.org/name` label predates the automatic Kubernetes label.
```
Feel like if we mention it, user will be confused if we don't dispell possible concerns: yes the k8s label serves the same purpose, we added ours first, that's why there are two (well three if you count the one on WEPs!)

Author: Nice! Added.

:::

## ServiceAccount

Similarly, the `projectcalico.org/name` label is applied to ServiceAccounts and allows for matching by name in a `serviceAccountSelector`.

## Use the correct selector with labels in policies

Calico labels must be used with the correct selector or the policy will not work as designed (and there are no error messages in Manager UI or when applying the YAML).

| Calico label         | Usage requirements                                              | Use in these resources...           |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `projectcalico.org/name`                                     | Use with a **namespaceSelector** or **serviceAccountSelector**. | - Network policy<br />- Staged network policy<br /><br />Namespaced resources that apply only to workload endpoint resources in the namespace.<br /> |

Reviewer: GlobalNetworkPolicy et al now support namespaceSelector/serviceAccountSelectors but their _default_ values are different:

* In a NetworkPolicy,
  ```
  namespaceSelector:  <empty>
  selector: foo == "bar"
  ```
  means "resources in the same namespace as the NetworkPolicy that match `foo == 'bar'`"

* In a GlobalNetworkPolicy:
  ```
  namespaceSelector:  <empty>
  selector: foo == "bar"
  ```
  means "resources in any namespace and non-namespaced resources that match `foo == 'bar'`"

In an GlobalNetowrkPolicy, you can (now) do this, no problem:
```
namespaceSelector: projectcalico.org/name == "some-namespace"
selector: foo == "bar"
```
and it is equivalent to
```
namespaceSelector: <empty>
selector: (foo == "bar") && (projectcalico.org/namespace == "some-namespace") 
```

Author: Added in Namespace section.

> | `projectcalico.org/namespace`                                | Use the label as the label name, and a namespace name as the value to compare against (for example projectcalico.org/namespace == "default"). | - Global network policy<br />- Staged global network policy<br /><br />Cluster-wide (non-namespaced) resources that apply to workload endpoint resources in all namespaces, and to host endpoint resources. |

Reviewer: For symmetry, I feel like this should say "Use only with **selector**s ..."  The explanation of the two different types has such a different form that it's hard to understand the difference.

Author: Fixed.

> ## Workload endpoints

Reviewer: Feel like this should go before the "Use correct labels" heading, which, to me, is a summary of the difference between namespace and workload labels.  That section should either go at the start or the end, but not between the two.

Author: Moved.

Workload endpoints (which represent Pods in Kubernetes, or VM instances in OpenStack) receive several automatic labels:

* `projectcalico.org/orchestrator` is applied to all workload endpoints and allows Kubernetes Pods to be distinguished from OpenStack VM instances, and from HostEndpoints (which do not have the label):

* `has(projectcalico.org/orchestrator)` matches only workload endpoints
* `projectcalico.org/orchestrator == "k8s"` matches only Kubernetes Pods

> * For workload endpoints that represent Kubernetes Pods, `projectcalico.org/namespace` contains the name of the Pod's namespace. `projectcalico.org/namespace` predates the addition of `namespaceSelector` fields to GlobalNetowrkPolicies; it serves the same purpose as the `projectcalico.org/name` label in a `namespaceSelector` field.  The following GlobalNetworkPolicy is exactly equivalent to the one above:

Reviewer: I _expect_ that `projectcalico.org/namespace` also applies to NetowrkSets, but I'm not 100% sure.  NetowrkSets get convered similarly to WEPs.

Author: I don't see anything documented, but that's not to say...

```
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: GlobalNetworkPolicy
metadata:
name: foo-and-bar
spec:
selector: projectcalico.org/namespace in {"foo", "bar"} && color == "red"
types:
  - Ingress
ingress:
  - action: Allow
source:
selector: projectcalico.org/namespace == "baz"
destination:
ports:
  - 8080
```

> 

Reviewer: There may be one ro two other auto-labels, for example, automatic host endpoints have some pre-defined labels.

Author: I added a section for host endpoints with this bit:

Automatic host endpoints are differentiated from other host endpoints by the label projectcalico.org/created-by: calico-kube-controllers.
